## Chat Application

This is a real-time chat application built with React and ExpressJS. Firebase is used for authentication and real-time database, and Cloudinary is used for storing user profile images. JWT is used for security and token verification.

### Features

- Real time chating.
- User registration and authentication with Firebase Google Authentication.
- Google cloud SQl storage for storing messages and user details
- Real-time messaging between registered users using Firebase Real-Time Database.
- Cloudinary image storage for user profile pictures.
- JWT-based security with Firebase token verification.

## Technologies Used

- React
- ExpressJS
- Firebase
- Cloudinary
- MySQL

## Installation

The project is split into, the `public` folder is the frontend of the application build using react and the `server` folder is the backend of the application build using nodejs. See the respective folders for installation and local development informations.

## Usage

- Register a new user account with a Google account using Firebase Google Authentication
- Login with the registered account
- Upload a profile picture or select an avatar from Multiavatar API
- Start chatting with other registered users in real-time

## Security

JWT-based security is provided throughout the application with Firebase token verification. Each user has a unique token that is generated by Firebase upon registration. This token is used to authenticate the user on each request made to the server. Any request that does not have a valid token is rejected by the server.

## Database

Google MySQL instance is used as the database for the chat application. The messages between the users are stored in Firebase Real-Time Database.

## Image Storage

Cloudinary is used to store user profile pictures. Users can either upload their own pictures or select an avatar from Multiavatar API.
